[THEME MUSIC]
>> The Fertile Crescent.
This region was
once the heart of
the powerful and
sophisticated Sumerian empire.
The legends from
Babylon and Mesopotamia
have a strong
presence in mythology.
In the northern part of
this powerful crescent
sits the mysterious
pre-diluvian site
known as Gobekli Tepe,
which means "potbelly hill."
The most recent
radiocarbon sequencing
provides evidence that this
sacred site was carefully
buried and preserved
roughly 11,600 years ago.
In the central region,
now modern-day Iraq,
there are many
significant sites,
such as the Great Ziggurat
of Ur and the city of Eridu,
containing evidence of
ancient urban settlements.
Since excavations
began in the early
to mid-1800s, over
30,000 cuneiform tablets
have been recovered from
temples and libraries
in Nineveh, Sippar, and Babylon.
These tablets continue to
challenge the mainstream
narrative on the
origin of civilization.
>> Traditional history suggests
that what we call today
the Fertile Crescent is
the cradle of civilization.
It is in the Fertile
Crescent where
we find the records of the
ancient history that goes
back even before the Ice Age.
When we look at the ancient
Sumerian kings' list,
it is a mysterious,
mysterious list that
begins with eight rulers
covering a period of time
over 300,000 years, and each
ruler ruling for periods
of time that seem
improbable, from 18,000 to as
much as 36,000 years apiece.
Now, in our way of timekeeping,
it makes very little sense.
So historians traditionally
have called this a myth,
and they've written this off.
The problem is that
all of these kings
lead up to a time
of the Great Flood--
the ending of the last
Ice Age, the deluge--
and all of the kings and all of
the times of history following
the flood are
precisely accurate.
So the question is, why are
these times so improbable?
Is it possible that
the lengths of time
and the dates of the rulers
for those first eight kings
are actually measuring time
from a perspective that
is not relative to planet
Earth and our 360-day year?
Could it be that the
years that are measured
in terms of what are
called stars, could it
be that those stars are a unit
of measure from another world,
as the texts suggest, when the
gods came to Earth, suggesting
that they came from
somewhere other than Earth
and began that rule?
So this begins to open
the door to the question,
are we talking about a
pre-Ice Age civilization?
And if all of the dates from
the flood to the present
are accurate, then the dates
from the flood previous,
along the lines of
those four kings,
would place this Fertile
Crescent time precisely
into the Pleistocene,
precisely into the Ice Age,
and even covering the
time of the Younger Dryas.
>> The Sumerian Kings List is
an amazing stone tablet that is
at the Ashmolean Museum
in Oxford, England.
Now, this tablet gives us
the rule of eight kings--
antediluvian kings-- that
rule for over 200,000 years.
This is incredible.
One king ruled for 36,000
years; another king
ruled for 28,000 years--
giving up these immense
life spans of these kings.
And what's interesting is as
you get closer to the newer
part of the text on the
Sumerian Kings List,
you start finding more
normalized life spans.
They start dropping to 900
years, 800 years, 500 years,
30 years, 40 years.
So you see this track of people
living extremely long life
spans before the flood.
Then after the flood, you see
life spans were shortened.
>> In the Sumerian Kings
List, we are told that before
the time of the flood, there
were five sacred cities that
were established,
including Eridu.
Kingship was first lowered
from heaven to earth
before the time of the flood.
Then the flood came and
swept over the earth,
and kingship was
then re-established.
What we're finding now
with these new discoveries
is that we have further
evidence of an earlier
habitation at these places.
And what we're
going to be finding
is that this is ultimately
affirming that these flood
stories are true.
And so this opens up a
wide degree of latitude
for alternative
historians to say,
hey, we've been
saying for a long time
that our timeline of the
flood goes back to 12,000 B.C.
and that humans were in
fact inhabiting these areas.
And now we're discovering the
connective tissue and evidence
that supports those contentions.
>> How old is the human species
in the Fertile Crescent?
The scholar Berossus said
that the Babylonian King
List go back 432,000 years.
If that's true, then this
area where you had Sumer,
Babylon was inhabited by
civilized human beings hundreds
of thousands of years ago.
>> Fertile Crescent was the
name given to this region based
on the two rivers known as
the Tigris and Euphrates that
flowed down from the North into
the Persian Gulf and created
a very fertile environment
for civilizations,
such as the Sumerian and
then Akkadian, Babylonian,
and eventually Assyrian.
According to the Uric
list of kings and sages,
Eridu was the first city created
on the banks of the Euphrates
River.
The tablet describes how this
majestic city used its power
and influence to create the
Sumerian civilization that
would encompass almost
the entire Fertile
Crescent, stretching
from Northern Iraq all
the way to the Persian Gulf.
And it would give rise to the
pre-diluvian cities Bad-tibira,
Larak, Sippar, and Shuruppak.
>> In the main temple
complex of Eridu,
known as the Ziggurat of Eridu,
we see that the top of that
temple complex that's been
eroded for thousands of years
contains thousands of seashells
covering the top of that
temple, proving that that had
to have been deposited during
the great floods of
the Younger Dryas.
>> If the record
of the Kings List,
from the time of the
Great Flood forward,
is precisely accurate it can
be verified through history
and geology, then it's possible
that these kings actually began
the ruling when
they came to Earth,
that they began ruling
during the Pleistocene,
during the Ice Age, during the
warming times and the cooling
times that go all the way up
to and include even the Younger
Dryas, and that the Dryas would
be the reason that the flood
happened at the time
that it happened.
It may be that through
the Sumerian King List,
we have the most accurate
and the most precise
dating mechanism known to
exist, giving us insight
into ancient history, ancient
civilization, and the origins
of the human species
that extend back farther
and clearer than anything else
that we've seen to this point.
>> Mainstream science describes
this influential Sumerian
civilization as arising around
7,000 or 8,000 years ago.
The theory is that
this society arose
from primitive
hunter/gatherer beginnings
into an agricultural society.
But when we turn our attention
to the ancient tablets as well
as the new sites being
uncovered in Iraq,
they tell an incredible
story about gods that arrived
on Earth to start humanity.
Historians and researchers
that have closely
studied this ancient culture
believe that a race of beings
called the Anunnaki, or
Anunna in these texts,
may have arrived on Earth
many thousands of years ago.
>> So who exactly
are the Anunnaki?
Well, the name
itself is Babylonian,
and it means "the people or
gods of the sky and the earth."
But this was not
the original term
that was used by the
much earlier Sumerians.
They called the same
mythical beings the Anunna,
and this means "the
people of the sky."
And some people might
want to interpret this
as meaning "aliens" or "people
that come down from the sky."
>> Was the Fertile Crescent one
of the areas in which humans
were manifested
in the beginning?
It certainly would appear so
according to the Sumerian texts
which say that after
a great devastation,
the gods came and
manifested humans again.
And this is a theme that
we see repeated many times
in many cultures
all over the world.
But certainly, it's
there in the Middle East
that there was a
creation of humans,
there was a massive flood, and
the earth was re-populated.
>> Countless myths and legends
tell of a time where the gods
ruled the earth.
But the stories become
muddy when researchers
try to understand the
genetic leap from Homo sapien
to Homo sapien sapien.
>> From the research that I have
been looking at in Mesopotamia,
Sumeria, and also comparative
cultures in Egypt and South
America, they talk about
a time of experimentation.
And it seems to
be the suggestion
that they were experimenting
with DNA to see if there
was some way where
they could compromise
their DNA with humans.
And at some point,
they succeeded
because over in Egypt, which is
not too far from Mesopotamia,
they talk about
a time when there
was a bloodline of half
human, half divine people.
So, obviously, they succeeded
because these people
were on the throne of Egypt.
And we know they succeeded
because they also
talk about a time
in 3100 B.C., and I
quote, "when the first pharaoh
of a purely human bloodline
takes the throne of Egypt."
Now, you're not going to
mention that unless before that,
the time preceding
this period, there
was a period of half human,
half divine people, which
is the gap in between the time
when the creator gods were also
in charge of the different
thrones around the world.
So they must have found a
way to genetically compromise
their DNA with humans,
which then, of course,
gives birth to people
who are very tall.
Well, they become normal people
that we see around today.
>> For the humans, any species
that came from the skies were
called, in Middle
East, Anunnaki.
They were the people that
came from the stars to Earth--
from the heavens to earth.
That's what means "Anunna Ki."
So anyone who came from
the stars, from the skies,
would be that.
But mainly those who
settled in Middle East--
in the territory of Iran,
Iraq, those territories--
were the ones that got in
touch the most with humans
and modified them as
we know humanity today.
So they kind of were the
fathers and the mothers
of our civilizations or our
species as we know it today.
>> As archaeologists continue to
discover throughout the Fertile
Crescent, the sophistication
of these pre-diluvian cultures
appears to have been happening
at a very accelerated rate.
The evidence uncovers the
path-- from primitive living
to high society had
massive influence
from a highly advanced culture
>> It's so important to
understand how the ancient land
of Sumer was built under the
rule and guide of the Anunnaki.
Because when you look
at the ancient tablets,
you discover that all of
a sudden, out of nowhere,
this modern civilization
just appeared.
We're talking about paved roads,
sewer systems, water treatment
plants.
They even had bicameral
congress, schools.
All this comes from
these ancient people.
What's interesting about
the Sumerian Kings List,
as you get closer to the
newer age of the tablet
where the newer
writing is located,
you begin to see
where mankind is now
being given some kingship.
In other words, where it
starts with Gilgamesh actually,
all of a sudden you
see a half human
then half Anunnaki being
who's now been given kingship.
And then after him, precedingly,
more and more offspring
who are just human
with a smaller
percentage of this
Anunnaki bloodline
are now also given kingship.
So we start to see this
line where it breaks off
from these beings-- these
advanced gods, or these Neteru,
as they call them
in ancient times--
and begins to be mankind
actually ruling themselves
with a king as a liaison to
these advanced alien beings.
>> If these Anunna or Anunnaki
were guiding the expansion
of the Homo sapien sapien from
the Fertile Crescent region,
how did they guide us?
Was it with brute force,
as some scholars claim?
Or was this guidance passed
down to only a select
few in sacred ceremony as
it is commonly depicted
in ancient Sumerian art?
>> In the 1800s, an
ancient mural was found
in the Ashurbanipal Library
of Iraq which depicts what is
known as the tree of
life in the center,
with a king and a
priest on either side,
and on either side of them show
what are known as the Anunnaki
or Anunna represented
with wings.
And they depict something very
specific in there-- the passing
of knowledge, the seeds of
knowledge through a pine cone,
and the carrying of that
knowledge through a handbag.
What's so fascinating
about that is not only
do we find the symbols of
the handbag and the pine cone
all throughout the
Fertile Crescent region
but we also find it all the way
across the world with the Olmec
from La Venta, Mexico.
What that shows is at
the same influences
all derived from the Fertile
Crescent region of Sumer.
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> So the Assyrian tree of
life is important to me in many
ways.
First of all, it
is a tree of life,
so it is a subject
mentioned in Genesis.
Consequently, we
immediately think
that there is a particular
link between them.
Well, we know the Hebrews
spent a lot of time in Babylon,
so maybe this concept was
acquired at that time.
Then, many times the
tree is surrounded
by angels with bird heads.
For me, they are Nephelim.
And then they hold
a pine cone, which
can be reminiscent
of the pineal gland.
In fact, the symbol of the pine
cone can be found everywhere--
on the temples in
India; it can also
be found on the
Pope's cross; and it
can be found in the
Egyptian writings--
in the funerary writings of the
pyramids, texts of the pyramids
where it talks about
the Eye of Horus.
>> In Assyrian iconography,
often what you see is this
winged genie holding these
conical-shaped objects which
are interpreted as
cones, like pine cones.
And they are holding in
their other hand what
appears to be like a bucket.
And it's believed
that these pine cones
would be dipped into the bucket
which would contain a liquid--
either water or
essential oil maybe--
that was then sprinkled on the
tree to somehow bring it alive.
>> Many scholars speculate
that this pine cone possibly
represents the pineal
gland, or third eye,
in the center of
the human brain.
But what did this mysterious bag
depicted in the ancient relics
contain?
Most carvings depict
this bag or bucket
being clutched with one hand.
But this similar shape is
also carved on Pillar 43
at Gobekli Tepe.
Several scholars
argue that there
isn't a connection between
the clutched buckets
and similar shapes on Pillar 43.
But can the apparent
connection between the Anunnaki
and the origins of
this pre-diluvian site
be found in Sumerian mythology?
>> It was Professor
Klaus Schmidt,
the discoverer of Gobekli
Tepe in Southeast Turkey,
who suggested that the
Anunnaki were the founders
of civilization and that the
complex of Gobekli Tepe was
described in Sumerian
mythology as the Du-ku Mount.
The Du-ku Mount was the
home of the Anunnaki.
And it was said
that from here they
gave to humanity the rudiments
of agriculture and animal
husbandry.
And what he believed is that the
Anunnaki, the memory of them,
was preserved right the way
down to the Sumerian period.
And the people that
created Gobekli Tepe,
who we know as the
pre-pottery Neolithic culture,
were the ones that carried this
tradition-- and this bloodline,
if you like--
down through the centuries,
through the millennia,
until eventually they
became the first Sumerians.
And their descendants are us--
their DNA, their ancestry.
Their lineage and
legacy is within us--
Anunnaki within all of us.
But just maybe, that
Anunnaki mindset
is something that is
strong within those
that have the strongest ancestry
and hopefully something that
will allow us to
learn more about who
these important people
were of the past.
>> This idea of a hybrid or
mixed biology within the Homo
sapien sapien is supported
by many of the writings
in the texts from the different
civilizations all around
the planet.
Pre-diluvian sites like Gobekli
Tepe share another consistent
theme with other sites
around the planet--
a cosmic blueprint.
>> According to the
ancient civilization known
as the Babylonians that
came after the Sumerian
civilization, there was a star
connection alignment that had
once existed for the original
pre-diluvian cities that were
created in the Fertile Crescent.
And we know that because of
an ancient cylinder seal known
as the MUL.APIN, which describes
how those original five
pre-diluvian cities,
such as Eridu,
were created along the banks of
the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers
to mimic and map the
star constellation known
as Eridanus, which connects
in the northern part
to Gobekli Tepe,
forming a connection all
the way from Gobekli Tepe down
through the pre-diluvian cities
of the Sumerian, Akkadian,
and Babylonian civilizations.
>> Some researchers have shown
that the ancient Sumerians
aligned their cities to the
constellation of Eridanus,
"The River of Life."
This sets up a whole line
of temples and cities
in the ancient world that
followed this pattern.
For example, Dendera in
Egypt is aligned with Sirius.
So it is with the rising of the
dog star, the Light of Sirius,
comes through into the temple,
into the holy of holies.
They refer to this as
"heaven's mirror"--
that if you could align a
city with a constellation,
that it would draw down
into the earth plane
the powers of that
heavenly constellation.
And so the idea once
again is that we've
set up effectively a
stargate, or a portal,
in which the energy of the gods,
or even the gods themselves,
could enter into the earth
plane and influence positively
human affairs.
>> Evidence around sacred
sites having a strong stellar
connection is mounting.
But what was the reasoning
behind this central region
of the Fertile Crescent being
picked by these Sumerian gods?
>> There are a number of
important ancient and sacred
sites that are located on
the 38th parallel above
the equator.
They include Giza and Heliopolis
in Egypt, Ur and Eridu
in what is today Iraq--
these were ancient
Sumerian city states--
and also Persepolis,
the main city
in what is today Iran but
was in ancient times Persia.
So we have to ask
ourselves, what
was the importance of siting
these important places
of the ancient world on
this particular latitude?
The very simple answer is that
30 degrees above the equator
is one third of the
distance between the equator
and the North Pole.
But beyond this is the fact
that the 38th parallel relates
to the changes that are
brought in by the influence
of the equator and the
effects upon the weather
and the so-called horse winds.
And it creates this zone
of incredible sunny weather
and high pressure which would
have been seen as particularly
significant by ancient cultures
so that if they were looking
for places to site
their monuments
or cities or sacred
temples, that this
would be seen as a point
that had been singled out
as important by the
gods themselves.
>> Solving the riddle of what
exactly happened in the Fertile
Crescent tens of
thousands of years ago,
before the great deluge, is
not just an idle pastime.
It helps explain how
we came to be here
at this time on this
planet in this way.
And understanding
where we came from
and our relationship to
the rest of the universe
is important to our
survival as a species.
At some point in our
history, the Fertile Crescent
may have become the jumping
off place for humans
to spread out into other
parts of the planet.
If this is true, where
did the gods disappear to?
Is it possible the
ancient Sumerian cuneiform
tablets may also hold the key
to understanding the transition
from Anunnaki to human control
over the Fertile Crescent?
As mainstream
catches up with some
of the most influential
alternative research,
one thing is for certain--
something extraordinary happened
in the Fertile Crescent,
where humans were passed
down knowledge from the gods.
But as with all
heroes on a journey,
the road of trials and tests
isn't designed to be easy.
It is designed to make
the hero stronger.